People are making 30-second cinematic AI
films that look like they were shot on a
real movie camera. And once I
reverse-engineered how to make them, the
whole process came down to a workflow
anyone can use. So, in this video, I'll
show you how to take one plain idea all
the way to a finished cinematic short.
And at the end, I will give away all the
prompts, tips, and tricks I used to make
it. Before I open a single generating
tool, the entire story of the film has
to be laid out. Most people do the
opposite. They jump straight into a
generating tool and start generating
videos and figure out as they go. And
that's exactly why so many AI videos end
up looking like a bunch of disconnected
videos instead of a structured film. You
will get the wrong character in the
wrong scene and dialogue that doesn't
line up. Plus, the locations also don't
match. And you're having to make the
whole thing up mid-generation every
single time. So, to skip all that
hassle, I will create the storyline of
our video first. To begin with, let's
open Claude and paste this prompt into
the prompt box. Then, in the bracket,
I'll fill in my own ideas, characters,
and everything else in my mind. [music]
As you can see, it laid out everything
in incredible detail. First, it gave me
the full character list, each one with
their age, build, face, and wardrobe.
Then, it gave me the locations and it
broke the scenes down in the exact order
I should generate them. It laid out all
the dialogue, too. Plus, the aesthetic
we're going for. And right at the end,
it even gave me the color grading
directions. And we will build our assets
by focusing on this plan so the whole
film stays connected as one continuous
story instead of a bunch of random
videos that were each made on their own.
And the best part is I have already made
every decision needed so I don't have to
juggle 10 different settings and get
confused while I'm generating. But
still, this is only a plan. Next, it
should be executed in order. And to
begin with, I will start with something
that will make sure our video's
character stays the same no matter how
many different shots we generate. From
here, everything I do will be inside
Higgs Field. A normal AI generator just
takes your prompt and gives you back a
video. But Cinema Studio lets me control
it like a real film director. I can
choose the camera, the lens, and even
the focal length. And I can fully set up
the shot as if I'm controlling an actual
film set. And if you want to follow
along and make this for yourself, the
link to sign up is down in the
description. Next, I'll click into
Cinema Studio from Higgsfield, and I'll
make sure image is selected. The model
is set to cinematic cameras by default,
[music] so I'll switch it to GPT image 2
as our image generation model. I'll
change the aspect ratio to 16 by 9, and
the quality stays high. And then, I'll
paste in this prompt. As you can see,
we've got a three-part character sheet
of our main male character. He's
standing in two different poses, one
from the front and one from the back.
And right next to them, a detailed
close-up of his face. Now, our female
character goes through the exact same
steps with the same model and the same
settings. The only thing that will
change is her description. Then, I'll
generate her. As you can see, her
generation also turned out really
beautiful. And overall, the character
sheet is pretty detailed, [music]
but generating them is only half the
job. What makes them actually reusable
is the next step. For every asset I
make, I'll save it as an element and
give it a name. Then, it will show up
under my elements. And from then on,
I'll never have to describe [music] that
person again. I'll just type the at
symbol and pull the exact saved element
straight into the prompt. That's the
real mechanism behind keeping everyone
consistent. The model isn't reading a
fresh description and guessing each
time. It's loading the same locked-in
element I already approved and saved, so
the character comes out identical in
every video. [music] And the same
approach goes for our location, too. So
next, I'll build the location separately
from the people in it. [music] I'll
paste in the prompt and generate. As you
can see, we've got a very dark and misty
park at night, and it looks pretty
cinematic. So now, my cast and the
location are locked [music] in. But, a
character sheet and an empty park are
still two separate pieces. And next, I
have to get them together in a scene.
And the best way to do that isn't by
jumping straight into video. Instead,
I'll combine the images and bring them
into a single frame first. And what that
does is lock in everyone's placement
before anything starts moving. So, when
I animate it later, the video model
already has the exact positions to work
from. And the only thing left for me to
direct is the motion. I'll start with
our male character alone on the bench.
Then, I'll paste in this prompt and hit
generate. As you can see, he's sitting
alone on one side of the bench with his
coffee held in both hands. The lamp post
is right behind him, and the rest of the
bench is empty. For the second image,
I'll use the exact picture we just
generated and give it to the AI as a
reference. Then, I'll paste in this
prompt. And as you can see, our female
character has been added into the
picture. Giving the AI that first image
as a reference is what keeps the whole
set identical. So, now we've got two
almost identical frames. But these
images have pretty normal coloring on
them. And before I turn them into
videos, I'll have to change a few things
first. The single biggest thing that
makes this look cinematic isn't
something I do in the video. It's
changing how these images look first.
I'll open the color grading panel from
the toolbar at the top. Then, I'll
select the black and white film preset
and leave its settings as they are. I'll
let the film grain stay on because the
grain helps the scene achieve a natural
cinematic look. Then, I'll apply the
exact same grade to both images and save
them out as my new reference images. As
you can see, both of the images now have
a black and white filter. And overall, I
like how it looks. And the reason I'm
doing this first is because this method
is far more reliable than just typing it
into the video prompt to make the scenes
black and white. On top of that, the
contrast, the shadows, and all of the
lighting carry straight from the images
into the motion of the video. So, the
result comes out much better. Now, the
cinematic look is locked into the
references themselves, and every video I
make from them will come out black and
white. But right now, these are still
images. And in the next part, we'll
actually start to make them move. And
there's a trick to making this whole
shot look cinematic. It's all in how I
set up the scene before I hit generate.
First, I'll switch over to video mode in
Cinema Studio. This is where I get to
set up the camera myself. You You see
all the options right above the prompt
box. For the camera, I'll scroll down to
find film and an anamorphic lens at 35
mm and set the aperture at F 1.4. That F
1.4 aperture blurs the background into a
soft out of focus look, so your eye goes
straight to the characters. And the
anamorphic lens gives it that wide
filmic feel. Next, I'll set the genre to
noir. And the most important setting of
all is the aspect ratio, which I will
switch to 21 by 9. That's the same
ultra-wide ratio they use in actual
cinemas. It'll add black bars at the top
and bottom of the video. And that alone
makes the shot look way different from a
normal video. Now, before I run any of
these prompts, there's one more step
that makes a big difference. Instead of
pasting in a plain English paragraph,
I'll convert each prompt I wrote into
JSON first. And I'll do that with a free
tool called videoprompt.studio.
Converting them to JSON just structures
the prompt, so the model understands
what we want to happen better. And that
helps us achieve a more consistent
result across the shots. I'll give you a
link in the description for the tool,
and it's completely free. With the
settings locked in and the prompts
converted, I'll start to generate the
videos one at a time. For the first
shot, I'll pull in my two color graded
references, then I'll paste in the JSON
prompt and hit generate.
Overall, our video turned out pretty
good. And I especially like how the
camera cuts between shots and focuses on
specific subjects like our female
character in this one. It looks exactly
like it's happening in an actual film.
Then for the next shot, I'll change the
duration and paste in this prompt. And
keep in mind, all of these prompts are
converted to JSON first.
>> So, you have got anything new for me?
>> Next Tuesday.
The target is going to be the mayor. You
should be careful, Mr. Adam.
>> This video turned out pretty good, too.
The audio and the cuts in the middle are
really good. But, there's a little
problem at the end. As you can see, the
woman takes the wrong path and just
vanishes into nowhere. So, keep in mind
that an AI model will always make small
mistakes like this and we'll just have
to fix it later in the editing phase.
And for our last shot, I'll keep the
settings exactly the same and paste in
this prompt.
Our third video came out with pretty
much no issues. Only the coffee cup
appeared there without the showing when
the character put it down. And the zoom
out effect on the shots makes it look
really good. The sound effects also
match the whole vibe of the video. And
just like that, our two images are now
playing out in motion. But, three
separate videos still don't make [music]
a film. There are a couple of glitches
to clean up and one final step before
it's ready to deliver. And this last
part is what separates a few good AI
videos from something that actually
looks like a finished [music] film.
First, I'll bring all three videos into
CapCut, which is a free editor. Then,
I'll drop them onto the timeline in
order. Then, I'll fix that glitch from
earlier. I'll just trim out the few
frames where the woman takes the wrong
path and the problem is gone. And that's
the thing about AI videos. The editing
matters just as much as the generating
because this is where you quietly fix
[music] every small mistake the model
made. Then, I'll line up the cuts with
the dialogue and add a music track
underneath to set the mood. Now, there's
one problem left. All of this is still
only in 1080p. So, I'll run the exported
film through Topaz Video AI to upscale
it to 4K. I'll use the Starlight Precise
model, which is built specifically for
AI generated video. So, it handles these
shots better than a normal upscaler. And
here's the one setting that matters
most. I'll keep the frame rate at 30
frames per second because bumping it up
to 60 frames per second makes it look
like a live broadcast or a sports
stream, not a film. And 30 frames per
second is exactly what keeps that
cinematic feel.
>> So, you have got anything new for me?
>> Next Tuesday.
The target is going to be the mayor. You
should be careful, Mr. Adam.
>> And that's the whole thing. A plain idea
taken all the way to a finished
cinematic film made completely with AI.
And the best part of this whole workflow
is that almost all of it happens inside
Higgsfield. Once your characters and
elements are saved, a whole new scene
only takes a couple of prompts and you
can customize it however you want. Sign
up with my link in the description and
start building your own cinematic short
today. Thanks for watching and I'll see
you in the next one.